# Lecture 3

## Economics
"Economics is the social science that studies the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services." - Wikipedia  
"In it's most simple and concise definition, economics is the study of how society uses its limited resourcse." - Aaron Hill, study.com

> Discussion question - How do you think society should go about deciding what gets produced, by whom, and who gets it.  

### Notable Nobel Prize Winners

`William Nordhaus` - Developed one of the first models for combining the economy and climate change.  
`Richard Thaler` - Combining psychology/economics to advance Behavioral Economics (Nudge Theory) <---This looks interesting for a book project  
`Angus Deaton` - How we think about consumption and welfare and how that influences economic development.  
`Elinor Ostrom` - Community engagement/leadership and management of common pool resources.  
`Amartya Sen` - Understanding welfare and poverty.  

### The Economist Mindset
Economists are largely concerned with trade-offs, so they focus on things that are quantifiable.  
Not only do things need to be quantifiable, they need to be **comparable**. This is where **prices** come in.
 - Prices create consistent, objective ways to discuss trade-offs.
 - The concept of money is not necessary for prices, but it simplifies things  
When thinking about sustainability, there are two priimary types of trade-offs that come up:
 - Time
 - Capital Stocks (Goods, resources, land, etc.)

### Discounting
The idea of trading "time" is a little abstract at first, but we actaully do it all the time. 
The "price" we put on time is called the `discount rate`.  
We discount the future for several resasons:
 - `Infalation` - causes a loss of value
 - `Opportunity cost` - of not investing in something else
 - `Uncertainty` - about the future (investments)
 - `Preference`
The discount rate chosen directly impacts how we weigh the future relative to today.  
 - `High discount rate` - more value placed on costs/benefits today relative to the future
 - `Low discount rate` - future events are weighted more proportionally to current events
Heres a challenge: If you use too high a rate you won't save anything. If you use too low of a rate, then the present will not be improved.  
There is no consensus on what the discount rate of the future should be.
 - `Nicholas Stern` - Suggests a very low discount rate of 1.4%. A criticism of this is that this approach risks the impoverished people of today to tackle future problems.  
Social Cost of Carbon (SCC)  
**Definition**: The net present value of all current and future costs and benefits of emitting one additional unit of carbon dioxide.  

### Capital "Stocks"
 - `Financial` - Money that is invested.
 - `Manufactured` - Physical assets generated by economic production that provide a flow of goods and services.
 - `Natural` - Physical assets generated by nature that provide a flow of goods and services.
 - `Human` - Knowledge, education, training, skills that generate productive benefits
 - `Social` - Trust, relationships, interactions,  we have with each other
 - `Institutional` - Formal and informal social relationships with institutions 

### SHADOW PRICES
These are one approach to translating changes in our capital stocks into changes in our overall "wealth"